---
display-name: Attack Check
tags:
  - combat
  - core
  - mechanics
aliases:
  - Attack Check
  - Attack
  - Attacking
abstract: How to attack in combat
status:
  - wip
  - untested
---
# The Attack Check
> See [[combat]], [[rolling-dice]], [[pc-stats]], [[hit-points]].

> [!important] Attack Check in a nutshell
> The *Attack Check* is a **Check** similar to any other Check:
> - The PC rolls against one Stat.
> - Bonuses might apply.
> - The **Tier of the Check is the Toughness** of the enemy.
 
> [!important] Damage in a nutshell
> If the roll **succeeds** and **meets or beats the Toughness**:
> - The **Tier of Success ($) is the Damage** of the roll.
> - The Damage will be dealt to the enemy's Hit Points.
> - When the hit points reach 0, the enemy will take a wound.
> - Most enemies will only be able to take 1 to 3 wounds before dying.

## Rolling the Attack Check
The Attack Check is **functionally identical to any other Check**: The **player describes how the PC attacks**, and then rolls a **Check** against the **Stat that better represents the action** described.

### Selecting the Stat
The player has some **freedom to select the Stat** used when rolling an Attack Check, but it **must make sense**, and the **GM has veto**.

> [!info] The rule of thumb
> Typically, **weapon attacks** are done with **Physical Stats**, and **mental Stats are reserved for [[psykers-warp-sorcery|Sorcery]]**.

> [!important] Freedom for the GM
> The next table is useful if a GM wants to really regulate how attacking works in the system.
> 
> However, the idea is for players to be reasonable in their arguing. Therefore, a GM should feel free to impose penalties as they see fit when a player's idea is too out there.

| Stat             | Use                                                                    |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [[Strength]]     | Default for melee attacks. Shooting heavy weapons (not very accurate). |
| [[Dexterity]]    | Melee attacks (fencing). Default Stat for ranged combat.               |
| [[Constitution]] | Very rare. Possible use in grapples.                                   |
| [[Awareness]]    | Aiming. Precise ranged weapons.                                        |
| [[Intelligence]] | Faints. Aiming (when it requires complex understanding).               |
| [[Willpower]]    | Very rare.                                                             |
### Effectiveness of a Stat given an enemy


## Penalties and Bonuses
> See [[cover]], [[tags]], [[rolls]]

A GM will impose **penalties** in situations where:
- **Attacking is difficult** regardless of the selected stat.
- The selected **Stat doesn't make a lot of sense**.
- The selected **Stat is weak or ineffective against the enemy**.

> [!example]

An attack roll can have **bonuses**:
- If the enemy is **defenseless** (unaware, out in the open, paralyzed...).
- If the PC has **beneficial Tags**.
- If the selected **Stat is strong or effective against the enemy**.

### Possible penalties and bonuses
Considering the situations that might benefit or hindering the PC might result in the GM imposing some modifiers on the Attack Check:
- **Modifying the Tier** of the Check (up or down).
- Imposing **Advantage or Disadvantage**.
- Some situations can be so beneficial for the PC that the attack is considered an **automatic success.**
- Some situations might make **one specific stat as the only option for rolling.**

## Fumbles & Crits

## Calculating Damage
If the **Check is successful**, and the **Tier of Success surpasses the Toughness** of the enemy: The attack hits, and the **Tier of Success is the Damage** generated by the attack.

> [!danger] Disregarding the Toughness in a successful roll
> It is clear that if the Tier of Success ($) of an attack is less than the enemy's Toughness, the attack fails.
> 
> But when an attack succeeds**, the damage is the full Tier of Success!** Note, the damage is **not** the difference between the $ and the Toughness.

> [!example] Practical cases
> 1. An Attack Check **generates 4$** but the enemy's **Toughness Tier is 5**. The attack **fails**.
> 2. An Attack Check **generates 6$** against the same enemy, with **Toughness Tier 5**. The attack succeeds, and the **damage is 6**.
## Special Cases

### Called Shots
Possibility to target: Cause tags that reduce, for example, toughness? Give $ penalties but require only success to apply a tag (no damage is produced, or reduced damage)

### Aiming
Usually awarenes unless it is shooting to a specific mechanical part so something technical happens, or trying to shoot a big monster in a specific muscle so it spasms, ie.