README.md, before:

# OS40K
This is Old School 40k, a Tabletop Roleplaying System designed to play in a grimdark science-fantasy setting with lots of humor.

## The objectives of this system
### Old School gameplay
- A solid but minimalist system that allows for GM rulings.
- A game loop that stays always on turns.
- The system specifically supports a west-marches style of play, where players' ambitions guide the discovery of the world.
### Modern improvements
- d100 Black Jack system.
- One action, one roll: the basic roll gives all the information needed.
- A roll always matters; bad things can happen with any failed check!
- Clocks: they help keep track of events, threats and statuses with ease.
- Although the game is perfectly enjoyable if played with pen and paper, some mechanics take advantage of VTTs and digital resources.
## Setting
- The setting is heavily inspired by the lore some famous sci-fi wargames.
- The lore is supported in the mechanics, but only the broader strokes:
	- A demigod Emperor on his throne, far away.
	- A parallel dimension created by the emotion of people, populated by horrors.
	- A faction that prays to the soul of machines.
	- A galaxy always in war.
- The ideas and opinions of the GM should be always easy to implement.
	- The setting is vague enough that any GM can re-write parts of the cannon without contradicting any lore written in os40k.
	- Plus, the mechanics will probably support the re-write.
- If any section of os40k talks about the setting, it will give ideas, use examples to explain mechanics or help the reader create their own setting.

Commit message:

Lots of work. Added game dev section.

README.md, after:

# OS40K
This is Old School 40k, a Tabletop Roleplaying System designed to play in a grimdark science-fantasy setting with lots of humor.

## The objectives of this system
### Old School gameplay
- A solid but minimalist system that allows for GM rulings.
- A game loop that stays always on turns.
- The system specifically supports a west-marches style of play, where players' ambitions guide the discovery of the world.
### Modern improvements
- d100 Black Jack system.
- One action, one roll: the basic roll gives all the information needed.
- A roll always matters; bad things can happen with any failed check!
- Clocks: they help keep track of events, threats and statuses with ease.
- Although the game is perfectly enjoyable if played with pen and paper, some mechanics take advantage of VTTs and digital resources.
## Setting
> *"Enough head-cannon to surprise veterans, and so little that players' ideas can be added on the fly."*

- The setting is heavily inspired by the lore some famous sci-fi wargames.
- The lore is supported in the mechanics, but only the broader strokes:
	- A demigod Emperor on his throne, far away.
	- A parallel dimension created by the emotion of people, populated by horrors.
	- A faction that prays to the soul of machines.
	- A galaxy always in war.
- The ideas and opinions of the GM should be always easy to implement.
	- The setting is vague enough that any GM can re-write parts of the cannon without contradicting any lore written in os40k.
	- Plus, the mechanics will probably support the re-write.
- If any section of os40k talks about the setting, it will give ideas, use examples to explain mechanics or help the reader create their own setting.
