system/core-mechanics/combat.md, before:

---
display-name: Combat
tags:
  - mechanics
  - core
  - combat
aliases:
  - Fight
  - Combat
abstract: Combat 101
status:
  - todo
---
# Combat
> See [[social-conflict]]

Movement and positioning is relevant in combat too. (No static combat like 5e)

## Distances
## Attacking
> See [[attack-roll]]


## Defending from an Attack
> See [[defense-roll]], [[hit-points]], [[wounds-health-recovery]]

Process of defending:
1. **Describe how the PC attacks**
   This determines the [[pc-stats|Stat]] used to defend, and might also give penalties or bonuses.
2. **Roll defense**
   Roll under the selected stat, applying tags and other modifiers (like [[cover]])
3. **Subtract $ from the damage**
   The damage comes from the weapon used. Subtract from it the $ generated in the [[defense-roll]].
4. **Take the damage**
   The damage that you didn't get to reduce now is subtracted from your [[hit-points]]. If you reach 0, it doesn't carry over.
5. **Take a Wound** 
   If your [[hit-points]] are 0 and you take more damage, take a [[wounds-health-recovery|Wound]]. Tier = damage.
## Handling Fumbles and Crits
> See [[crits-fumbles]]

A critical defense roll can also be a fumble in the attack.

Commit message:

Defense Check ready for alpha (probs)

system/core-mechanics/combat.md, after:

---
display-name: Combat
tags:
  - mechanics
  - core
  - combat
aliases:
  - Fight
  - Combat
abstract: Combat 101
status:
  - todo
---
# Combat
> See [[social-conflict]]

Movement and positioning is relevant in combat too. (No static combat like 5e)

## Ranges
> See [[space-tiers]]


## Attacking
> See [[attack-roll]]


## Defending from an Attack
> See [[defense-check]], [[hit-points]], [[wounds-health-recovery]]

Process of defending:
1. **Describe how the PC attacks**
   This determines the [[pc-stats|Stat]] used to defend, and might also give penalties or bonuses.
2. **Roll defense**
   Roll under the selected stat, applying tags and other modifiers (like [[cover]])
3. **Subtract $ from the damage**
   The damage comes from the weapon used. Subtract from it the $ generated in the [[defense-check]].
4. **Take the damage**
   The damage that you didn't get to reduce now is subtracted from your [[hit-points]]. If you reach 0, it doesn't carry over.
5. **Take a Wound** 
   If your [[hit-points]] are 0 and you take more damage, take a [[wounds-health-recovery|Wound]]. Tier = damage.

## Handling Fumbles and Crits
> See [[crits-fumbles]]

A critical defense roll can also be a fumble in the attack.
